CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing

We love contributions! If you want to run the project locally to test out changes, run the examples,
or just see how things work under the hood, read on below.

## Project Layout

### `/kotlin`

This is the main module of our android library, you can find a useful `RiveAnimationView`
or `RiveArtboardRenderer` in the `app.rive.runtime.kotlin` namespace.
The underlying [C++ runtime](https://github.com/rive-app/rive-cpp) is mapped to objects in
the `app.rive.runtime.kotlin.core` namespace. These allow more fine grained control for more complex
animation loops. Our high level views are simply built on top of this.

#### `/cpp` && `/submodules`

This runtime is built on top of our [C++ runtime](https://github.com/rive-app/rive-cpp). This is
included as a submodule in `/submodules`. The `/cpp` folder contains the C++ side of our Android bindings and is located at `/kotlin/src/main/cpp`

### `/app`

Multiple sample activities can be found here, this can be a useful reference for getting started
with using the runtimes.

## Development workflow

### Running Locally

Open the project in Android Studio and ensure you can run "Make Project" to run the Gradle build.
Run the `app/` example app that runs the local Android runtime code to test out changes on a device
or emulator.

### Testing

When making any changes to the source code, or even updating the `.so` build files in the project,
run the test suite:

- Open the project in Android Studio
- Select the "Project" view (upper-right corner)
- Right-click on `kotlin/src/androidTest` and select "Run All Tests"

### Building `.so` files

The runtime here should be updated to point to the latest `rive-cpp` submodule when that runtime has
new commits merged in. This ensures the `rive-android` project is up-to-date with its underlying
native code layer to pull in latest patches, features, and more. In most cases, when new `rive-cpp`
changes are introduced, we need to build new `.so` files for different architectures.

#### Pre-requisites

1. Install Ninja - `brew install ninja`
2. Download [Premake5](https://premake.github.io/download), and add it to your PATH

#### Steps

The Android NDK builds `.so` files
for [different architectures](https://developer.android.com/ndk/guides/abis). <br />
The current NDK version we're using is stored in [.ndk_version](./cpp/.ndk_version). Rive is
constantly making use of the latest clang features, so please ensure your NDK is up to
date. ([How to install a specific NDK version](https://developer.android.com/studio/projects/install-ndk#specific-version)) <br />
We also need to rebuild new `.so` files (located in `/kotlin/src/main/jniLibs/`) when pulling in
latest changes from `rive-cpp`:

```bash
cd cpp/

# Add NDK_PATH variable to your .zshenv
NDK_VERSION=$(tr <.ndk_version -d " \t\n\r")
echo 'export NDK_PATH=~/Library/Android/sdk/ndk/${NDK_VERSION}' >> ~/.zshenv
source ~/.zshenv

# Builds .so files for each architecture
./build.all.sh
# After the script above completes successfully, you may see 4 new .so files. Make sure these are committed as a code change
git add .
```

Commit message:

Clean builds properly
- Restore the clean task calling our script
- Renamed our script to `clean_all.sh`
- Refactor the script to clean up all our dependencies properly
- Clean step in `build.rive.for.sh` is a nicer now and doesn't fail if skia has been downloaded rather than cloned

Diffs=
b553c8916 Clean builds properly (#5685)

Co-authored-by: Umberto Sonnino <umberto@rive.app>

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing

We love contributions! If you want to run the project locally to test out changes, run the examples,
or just see how things work under the hood, read on below.

## Project Layout

### `/kotlin`

This is the main module of our android library, you can find a useful `RiveAnimationView`
or `RiveArtboardRenderer` in the `app.rive.runtime.kotlin` namespace.
The underlying [C++ runtime](https://github.com/rive-app/rive-cpp) is mapped to objects in
the `app.rive.runtime.kotlin.core` namespace. These allow more fine grained control for more complex
animation loops. Our high level views are simply built on top of this.

#### `/cpp` && `/submodules`

This runtime is built on top of our [C++ runtime](https://github.com/rive-app/rive-cpp). This is
included as a submodule in `/submodules`. The `/cpp` folder contains the C++ side of our Android bindings and is located at `/kotlin/src/main/cpp`

### `/app`

Multiple sample activities can be found here, this can be a useful reference for getting started
with using the runtimes.

## Development workflow

### Running Locally

Open the project in Android Studio and ensure you can run "Make Project" to run the Gradle build.
Run the `app/` example app that runs the local Android runtime code to test out changes on a device
or emulator.

### Testing

When making any changes to the source code, or even updating the `.so` build files in the project,
run the test suite:

- Open the project in Android Studio
- Select the "Project" view (upper-right corner)
- Right-click on `kotlin/src/androidTest` and select "Run All Tests"

### Building `.so` files

The runtime here should be updated to point to the latest `rive-cpp` submodule when that runtime has
new commits merged in. This ensures the `rive-android` project is up-to-date with its underlying
native code layer to pull in latest patches, features, and more. In most cases, when new `rive-cpp`
changes are introduced, we need to build new `.so` files for different architectures.

#### Pre-requisites

1. Install Ninja - `brew install ninja`
2. Download [Premake5](https://premake.github.io/download), and add it to your PATH

#### Steps

The Android NDK builds `.so` files
for [different architectures](https://developer.android.com/ndk/guides/abis). <br />
The current NDK version we're using is stored in [.ndk_version](./kotlin/src/main/cpp/.ndk_version). Rive is
constantly making use of the latest clang features, so please ensure your NDK is up to
date. ([How to install a specific NDK version](https://developer.android.com/studio/projects/install-ndk#specific-version)) <br />
Make sure you're rebuilding the native libraries when pulling in the latest changes from `rive-cpp`:

```bash
cd kotlin/src/main/cpp/

# Add NDK_PATH variable to your .zshenv
NDK_VERSION=$(tr <.ndk_version -d " \t\n\r")
echo 'export NDK_PATH=~/Library/Android/sdk/ndk/${NDK_VERSION}' >> ~/.zshenv
source ~/.zshenv

# Back to the top of the repo
cd -
# Make sure everything still builds
./gradlew assembleDebug
# After the script above completes successfully, commit your changes
git add .
```
